Added `conditionals.md` in the kotlin folder (#1555)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/conditionals/conditionals.md

---
Title: 'Conditionals'

> Description: 'Conditionals take an expression, which is code that evaluates to determine a value, and checks if it is true or false. If it’s true, we can tell our program to do one thing — we can even account for false to do another.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Conditionals take an expression, which is code that evaluates to determine a value, and does something if it is true or false.'
```
Descriptions should be relatively short.

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Conditionals'
  - 'Control Flow'
  - 'Switch'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Conditionals** are commands in kotlin that handle decisions. With conditionals, code is dynamic, which means that it can behave differently given a different condition. In conditionals statements we can write different code blocks which can execute when the condition is met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Conditionals** are commands in Kotlin that handle decisions. With conditionals, code is dynamic, which means that it can behave differently given a different condition. In conditionals statements different code blocks can be written which can execute when the condition is met.
```

> **Conditionals** are commands in Kotlin that handle decisions. With conditionals, code is dynamic, which means that it can behave differently given a different condition. In conditionals statements different code blocks can be written which can execute when the condition is met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Conditionals** are commands in Kotlin that handle decisions. With conditionals, code is dynamic, which means that it can behave differently given a different condition. In conditional statements different code blocks can be written which can execute when the condition is met.
```

> ## If statement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## If Statement
```

> We use the `if` statement to invoke conditional code. In other words, the code will only run `if` a predicate is fulfilled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `if` statement is used to invoke conditional code. In other words, the code will only run `if` a predicate is fulfilled.
```

```pseudo
if(condition){
    // code block
}
```

> For example, let's suppose a bot, Qbot, can go watch a movie if it finishes its homework. To accomplish this, we can write a code that looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose a bot, Qbot, can go watch a movie if it finishes its homework. To accomplish this, code can be written that looks like:
```

> For example, let's suppose our bot, Qbot, can go watch a movie if it finishes its homework. To accomplish this, we can write a code that looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's suppose a bot, Qbot, can go watch a movie if it finishes its homework. To accomplish this, we can write a code that looks like:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
   val FinishedHomeWork = true
   if (FinishedHomeWork){
   print("Can go out to watch the movie")
}
```

The output for the above code will be:

```shell
Can go out to watch the movie
```

> ## Else statement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Else Statement
```

The additional `else` block is used to provide an alternative for the cases when a predicate is not fulfilled.

```pseudo
if(condition){
    //code block
}else{

>     //code block

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Code block
```

}
```

> Like in the above example of Qbot if the FinishedHomework is given as `false` then we can use `else` statement as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like in the above example of Qbot if the `FinishedHomework` is given as `false` then the `else` statement can be used:
```

> Like in the above example of Qbot if the `FinishedHomework` is given as `false` then the `else` statement can be used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example the value of `FinishedHomework` is given as `false` resulting in execution of the `else` statement:
```

```kotlin
fun main(){
    val FinishedHomeWork = false
    if (FinishedHomeWork){
        print("Can go to watch the movie")

>     else{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }else{
```

        print("Cannot go out to watch movie")
    }
}
```

The output for the above code will be:

```shell
Cannot go out to watch movie
```

> ## If else-if statement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## If else-if Statement
```

> By placing one `if-else` block after another, we form a structure known as `if else-if`. It is a structure that checks conditions one after another until it finds the first one that is fulfilled, and it calls its body. If all the conditions return false, the `else` block is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By placing one `if-else` block after another, a structure is formed known as `if else-if`. It is a structure that checks conditions one after another until it finds the first one that is fulfilled, and it calls its body. If all the conditions return false, the `else` block is called.
```

> By placing one `if-else` block after another, a structure is formed known as `if else-if`. It is a structure that checks conditions one after another until it finds the first one that is fulfilled, and it calls its body. If all the conditions return false, the `else` block is called.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By placing one `if-else` block after another, a structure is formed known as `if else-if`. It is a structure that checks conditions one after another until it finds the first one that is fulfilled, and the code within that block is executed. If all the conditions return `false`, the `else` block is called.
```

```pseudo
if (condition1) {

>     // code to execute if condition1 is true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Code to execute if condition1 is true
```

} else if (condition2) {

>     // code to execute if condition1 is false and condition2 is true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Code to execute if condition1 is false and condition2 is true
```

} else {

>     // code to execute if both condition1 and condition2 are false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Code to execute if both condition1 and condition2 are false
```

}
```

> Here is an example where if probability is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If probability is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. If probability is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. This is done by using `if else-if` statement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the examples below, if `probability` is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If `probability` is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. And if `probability` is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. This is done by using `if else-if` control structure:
```

> In the examples below, if `probability` is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If `probability` is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. And if `probability` is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. This is done by using `if else-if` control structure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the examples below, if `probability` is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If `probability` is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. And if `probability` is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. This is done by using the `if else-if` control structure:
```

> Lets do a example where if probability is smaller or equal to 40, then only Unlikely will be printed. If probability is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then only Likely will be printed. If probability is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then only Yes will be printed. We solve this by using `if else-if` statement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example where if probability is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If probability is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. If probability is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. This is done by using `if else-if` statement:
```

```kotlin
fun main() {
    println("Is it going to rain?")
    val probability = 70
    if (probability <= 40) {
        println("Unlikely")
    } else if (probability <= 80) {
        println("Likely")
    } else if (probability < 100) {
        println("Yes")
    } else {
        println("What?")
    }
}
```

The output for the above code will be:

```shell
Likely
```

> ## When statement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## When Statement
```

> Likely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Is it going to rain?
Likely
```

> The `when` statement is an alternative to `if else-if`. On every branch of the `when` statement, you can specify a predicate and a body. The body will be executed only for the first predicate that returns true. So it works just like `if else-if`, but it's preferred because its syntax is better suited for multiple conditions. And thanks to the fact that it's a single statement, Kotlin can run this code faster than checking multiple `if else-if` statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `when` statement is an alternative to `if else-if`. On every branch of the `when` statement, a predicate and a body is specified. The body will be executed only for the first predicate that returns true. So it works just like `if else-if`, but it's preferred because its syntax is better suited for multiple conditions. And thanks to the fact that it's a single statement, Kotlin can run this code faster than checking multiple `if else-if` statements.
```

> The `when` statement is an alternative to `if else-if`. On every branch of the `when` statement, a predicate and a body is specified. The body will be executed only for the first predicate that returns true. So it works just like `if else-if`, but it's preferred because its syntax is better suited for multiple conditions. And thanks to the fact that it's a single statement, Kotlin can run this code faster than checking multiple `if else-if` statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `when` statement is an alternative to `if else-if`. On every branch of the `when` statement, a predicate and a body is specified. The body will be executed only for the first predicate that returns `true`. So it works just like `if else-if`, but it's preferred because its syntax is better suited for multiple conditions. And thanks to the fact that it's a single statement, Kotlin can run this code faster than checking multiple `if else-if` statements.
```

```pseudo
when (expression) {
    value1 -> {

>         // code to execute if expression == value1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Code to execute if expression == value1
```

    }
    value2 -> {

>         // code to execute if expression == value2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Code to execute if expression == value2
```

    }
    ...
    else -> {

>         // code to execute if expression does not match any of the above values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Code to execute if expression does not match any of the above values
```

    }
}
```

> In the following example, if the probability is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If the probability is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. If probability is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. Otherwise, "What?" will be printed. This time the `when` statement will be used to solve this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the code below, the conditional statements of the previous example are implemented with a `when` statement in lieu of multiple `if-else` blocks:
```

```kotlin
fun main() {
println("Is it going to rain?")
val probability = 70
    when {

>         probability < 40 -> {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        probability <= 40 -> {
```

> In the following example, if the probability is smaller or equal to 40, then only Unlikely will be printed. If the probability is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then only Likely will be printed. If probability is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then only Yes will be printed. Otherwise, What? will be printed. If you run the code, you should see Likely because the initial probability is 70, but feel free to change this value and run the code again. We will use when statement to solve this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, if the probability is smaller or equal to 40, then "Unlikely" will be printed. If the probability is over 40 but smaller or equal to 80, then "Likely" will be printed. If probability is over 80 but smaller or equal to 100, then "Yes" will be printed. Otherwise, "What?" will be printed. This time the `when` statement will be used to solve this:
```

        println("Unlikely")
        }
        probability <= 80 -> {
        println("Likely")
        }
        probability < 100 -> {
        println("Yes")
        }
        else ->
        println("What?")
        }
    }
}
```

The output for the above code will be:

```shell

> Likely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Is it going to rain?
Likely
```
